all right and we should be recording now
yep we are okay so hello everybody
uh worker and rod are not here today so
i'll be your host for this meeting on
june 22nd for the ipod team
uh and yeah so
we have our normal hack md pad
and i will try to take notes
even though i am not really good with
that
uh cool so a certain
update it's actually pretty short uh
most of last week was taken figuring out
how to run a falcon node
and further descend into storage deals
and
other unsavory stuff um
hopefully we will actually have a deal
by
tomorrow i'm waiting for
the team which works on the
retrieval market stuff to put
things on the test test network and then
we will see if we can
indeed send selectors over the wire and
get parts back as
hana says it's supposed to work uh but
nobody has tried this yet it's all
like the types are there the code
supposedly is there but nobody ever read
this
so we'll see how that goes um
and other than that i got a little bit
closer on
uh the dagger streamer uh from
the file system it is
almost doing what i want it to do but
it's like
still not not exactly there it it it's
too much too much memory trying to do
things over and over again um
another another thing by the way uh i
had a moment to try the new
the new arm-based uh aws instances that
they released
for general availability on the 11th i
believe
and they
can actually arrival on
amd r9 when it comes to practicing
stuff in a stream so i am
able to get on this arm instances that
are like 40 40 bucks a month
i'm able to get about a gigabyte and a
half per second
throughput with actual hashing and
everything
so that's an interesting thing to
consider maybe for
something like dumbo drop further down
the further down the line
instead of lambdas to actually have you
know stuff on diamond boxes
um and that's pretty much all i have for
this week
next i have eric with a lot of notes
well i have no short-term memory when i
speak so i have to like pre-write the
entire thing or i just
make a lot of sounds um yeah
so
so this last week i tried to implement
an advanced data layout because we had
had some discussions lately and
it sounded like there was some worries
that we just don't have enough proof
that we know what we're doing
with these our plans are actually
well-formed so i tried to just do
the thing and see if i had trouble um
and so i initially i was going to try to
bite off doing hamps but i thought yeah
that's
a bunch of things and so instead i just
sketched out the simplest thing possible
to make a dummy
example advanced data layout so i
invented the concept of a fanout map
and started implementing that and all
this is is
for every value in the map we're just
going to encode it in a new block
and put links to them in the map
internals and then
that's it so this is like
probably a totally useless data
structure you would be very unlikely to
use this but it should be
a proof of the interface is working
correctly
and so far no major roadblocks the
strategy of just conform to the node
interface
seems to be working at least in this go
code
the biggest problem i'm probably having
is that it turns out the amount of
boilerplate i'm needing in writing some
of this stuff
writing another node implementation is
turning out rather high
and that's starting to get to me because
it's
not a blocker but very irritating in the
code gen work as well so seeing it crop
up in another example is making me
i'll talk more about that later
the other thing that's interesting about
trying to do an adl interface
has been there's just a lot of things
that go
into setting one of them up so
well you need all of these pointers you
need a pointer to the link loader
function to make your readable thing
um you might have a bunch of
configuration stuff for it
that would be specific to the adl um
one thing that i was tempted to put in
there but i'm probably going to rip back
out
is you might need a pointer to the
node prototype for the internal
structure node
that you're going to use and i think i'm
going to rip that one back out because
that's just the kind of configurability
that i think you shouldn't need like adl
internals should be allowed to be
opinionated about the memory structure
they're using at runtime
so yeah the first draft is finding out
all sorts of things like this where like
yeah you could make this configurable
but like what if we didn't
um so a little bit more work on that
will probably
be forthcoming and i want to generate
some design decision
documentation around this the good news
is that
all of the major interfaces seem to just
be working this node
prototype concept that got introduced
also sometimes referred to as node style
does also seem to be really helping here
because that gives me a place to put
all these configuration things for the
ado
in one place in memory and so then you
get to use the normal node builder to
actually
fill in the content and none of those
function signatures need to be different
because all of the
fiddly bits for the adl any internal
configuration for it happening in the
prototype
comes along so that is a huge relief
working really well oh
yeah um i probably won't talk too much
about my boilerplate problems
but long story short i have to add a lot
of darn boilerplate methods
to every new note implementation i make
like if i'm making this new ado it's
going to act like a map
i have to add all these methods to match
the interface like
can i be course to a string and the
answer is no
and go is not being helpful for me in
trying to make this concise uh
embeds do not quite give me the ability
to do what i want or at least they don't
give me the ability to
have error messages that include the
type information in them
because when you have an embed it only
sees
itself it has no way to reference the
thing that it's embedded
in so it just literally cannot do this
and in so many other languages this
should be easy it's like the extends
keyword in almost every object oriented
language but i just
can't do it and go i've tried
increasingly fancy things like using
runtime tricks to
peek into the call stack info and see if
i can extract relevant names from there
and i can't that doesn't work
goes very consistent about the logic
it's using here it's just consistently
not what i want today and this is
driving me a little bit nuts
because i've also dived into the
assembler and like the information
is there there is an auto-generated
method stub
yeah that has exactly the relevant
information i want
on the interface that is embedding the
other thing
but i can't see that there's no
interface for me to get this
that i have found yet if anyone on the
internet is watching this who knows a
cool gopher trick please
get in contact with me and solve my
problems
meanwhile i am sad and the boilerplate
is plentiful but everything works it's
just annoying
finn i'm really frustrated by go lately
i don't know if that's coming out but
yeah have you considered uh you know
this
uh experimental implementation that they
released that has genetics
just right against it and after a year
and a half we just
yeah i want to get things into people's
hands faster and i don't want to build
on shifting sand like that
also i'm not sure it would help
well the the boiler method i think will
help no
i haven't looked enough to say with
confidence that it's irrelevant but i
would be surprised if it is relevant
like what i want in other languages here
would not be generics it would be like
traits or
subclassing or like some other virtual
type inheritance thing
and then so i would be very surprised if
golang's definition of generics is so
interesting that it would actually apply
to this
it's possible i don't know it basically
sounds like the stuff that you were
talking about that
it will surface in order for genetics to
work as described in the blog posts
exactly this info that you're missing
for the errors and so on and so forth
needs to be
transported somewhere visible so you
won't have this problem anymore
but i know
okay i guess i'm up um yeah so
i did a ton of um porting things to
esm module standard um
i started doing this i did not realize
how early i was to doing this
um i mean people have been using esm for
like five years across the js ecosystem
but um
using it in a node program that still
needs to be required using the nade and
using the native
node esm stuff like no almost nobody's
doing that very few people
um so miles who wrote it is using it in
a package
um and there is one example of
still allow still being able to use
commonjs require and it requires you
compiling down a version of the package
for uh require
and so that's what we're doing uh across
all of our
modules now there is a compiled down
version of all of the entry point files
that users require
and i also figured out how to cross
compile all the tests
so that we run all of our tests against
that require as well
so that's really nice um so all of that
is updated now all the
multi-formats and almost all the
dependencies i think there's like one
hashing function that i need to go and
get so that's like a lot of projects
across our ecosystem
um i also updated all of our release
automation to my latest release
automation stuff
um and i have a script now to update it
in the future which is great
um the block api is also up to date
there's a pr now that needs review i
need rods and put on that before i merge
it
um and then that migration is finally
complete
which will be awesome um
and then i did lots of managery stuff
all week
and um i need everybody's okrs for last
quarter so if you have okrs i think only
eric here right now
so score your okrs bro there's a pr
in the roadmap repo already you gotta
score your okay
and uh and then i'm working on the okrs
for next quarter
the thing that's relevant i think most
for everybody is that i want to cut out
a documentation week
uh this is actually eric's suggestion
and i'm gonna run with it but we're
gonna cut out a week where everybody on
the team writes docs
um and i talked to terry and she's
agreed to set aside time each day to do
a synchronous review on all of the docs
that we're building that whole week
um so we can get the imp the input of
somebody who knows nothing about art
well she knows a lot about her stack but
she like maintains a very good
view from like the outside of this kind
of stuff so she's like great at
reviewing docs
and um yeah yeah that'll be awesome
so keep that in mind and
uh yeah that's all that i have i think
publicly yeah
i just have a comment a week probably
it's not going to be enough but it's a
step
if we're all doing it that week i think
that we'll get all the main things
like the main thing is that all of the
current resources are
bad so we will at least take them down
or replace them with something that is
less bad they won't be complete
but they will be uh not confusing as
which is what they are now yes
the documentation should not make people
understand it less like that that's
that's like this
i'm setting the bar low and that's the
bar
yeah that that's because during the week
yeah a lot of the stuff that i'm hoping
to do are like make sure that the high
level structure is present because even
the things that we do
have documented they're like sometimes
we've got these little corners of a
thing that's like super well documented
but it doesn't connect to the bigger
picture in a sufficiently
navigable way that like for anybody to
find those stocks you have to read
everything exhaustively and then maybe
you realize that you found the part that
you wanted
but like the barrier to entry and
navigation is just currently
a lot and the website just makes you
understand it less
yeah the website the website is it's
like like almost misinformation
like it is not untrue and it's just like
not helpful
it's designed for a very strange
audience that i'm not even sure exists
actually before we go further like
bashing ourselves chris what is your
take on our documentation you're kind of
like
an external consumer
um i think
i'm trying to think of how i can say it
um i mean i think overall the project
so there's a lot of good documentation
that in some ways is a bit misleading
because
it seems like things are more thought
out than they are
i think once you kind of like peel back
layers like there's things that are
still in flux and so
i think i was misled a few times around
like they've got all this stuff figured
out
and while you've got a lot of stuff
figured out there's some things that
aren't
they're still kind of in flux or you
know and i think that's that was a hard
part is kind of knowing
what is solid complete and like good to
go
versus what's kind of brand new and you
know
touch this if you really need to but
maybe kind of avoid it versus
here's things we just don't know yet but
we have some ideas on so i think kind of
laying it out that way so as a consumer
you know what is safe to use
uh and what isn't would be helpful
yeah yeah i think i don't remember whose
suggestion it was if it was
rod or maybe one actually but it was um
we should really have like an entry
point for each language stack
like where you're actually like gonna
write code in and then that can
do a much better job of pointing you at
like the things that are really solid
and the things that you should really
rely on
and shuttling away some of the other
bits um because it really varies my
language right now like what you should
be messing with and what you should
so yeah i think that's true too like i
came in
um from a javascript point of view and
it was later i found that well it
wouldn't take that long to realize it
goes kind of like
you know the most mature advanced
thing um and actually kind of lost a
step that kind of gets done there first
and trickles down
but um actually it's probably not
totally true i think in general
then ipfs is generally how things work
yeah yeah for sure yeah actually
go is kind of not as
the new one is like not quite done
but definitely a head and then the old
one is like older than all of the
javascript stuff
but then the javascript stuff has like a
bunch of things that are still relied
upon in ipfs that are the old thing
so yeah
yeah it might be actually good to say
uh if you are yeah i don't know how to
deal with a different language thing
because it's going to be
differences between them in terms of
maturity and readiness and whatever
but i do know one thing i think like for
people that
are just trying to get their head
wrapped around it maybe as
maybe a pointer that says uh like
what you know i'm trying to think like
use this language and you can do this
with it successfully
uh because you know they may use rust or
something
and you know they get stuck because it's
got like so
much in flux right so i think having a
place where you know you can go and
something you can count on would be good
i don't know i thought yeah
i think some of the the lupita p project
has
engaged with this a lot too because they
definitely had
similar problems where like as that
project exists in
originally two languages really heavily
and now like i don't know how many
they've got
many different languages coming on now
um
they've definitely had the same thing
where it's like oh yeah the dht module
or something
works great in this language and like
very experimental in this other language
and just doesn't exist in these four new
languages
yet and they had a whole page of the
website that i remember you could
scroll down pretty long and it would
have like lots of lists of
maturity level scores um i think i
remember people from that project saying
that they had some beefs with the way
that they engaged that too
so i don't know maybe we should just ask
them what their final feelings are
yeah well like
i think it's because there's like a
gatekeeper on like when you decide
something is mature
and so and they have a bunch of stuff
that's being built by a lot of like
other grants from ethereum um
so like where do you rank the relative
maturity of the rustac
uh compared to the js deck when the same
people just aren't working on either one
so how do they compare to each other
yeah because the rest act
like a lot of work has gone into that
rest implementation like like
but who is to say what the relative
maturity is nobody knows both code bases
well enough
you know what you need is but when they
have that in a javascript world
like to do app which you implement on
different languages
and frameworks sorry thank you
[Music]
and then you could actually see um
maybe something like that could kind of
help is its new app for
ipld i don't know i think like
i was just thinking about this um one
thing that i did in the new js
multi-formats library that you can go
check out
is that because you have to go and
implement all these plugins for hashing
functions and codecs
i started to actually put in tables for
all the known ones
and that actually looks really nice and
so i think in the new website and the
new docs
we can do that in each language and
they'll all be fairly comparable right
so like for the multi-format stuff like
here's all the hashing functions and
then like oh you can see that like maybe
one language doesn't have as many as the
other one
um and when we get into ipld you could
even do it for some of the advanced data
structures right so like here's our
hamps
like here are the implementations in
these different languages like oh you
see
like that language doesn't have it that
is probably a bit behind um
or you know here's like schema
validation libraries and stuff like that
like in each one
cool all right good stuff um all right
i'm not done anybody else
yeah um i guess hey uh chris i'm going
to put you on the spot again a little
bit uh
this uh conversation that we had with
michael about
um the maturity of the uh
flexible byte format uh is this
something that like helps you the way
this right now
or there are things that are basically
missing from your point of view
or you haven't had a chance to read that
yet i haven't had a chance
i was kind of waiting for it to the dust
to settle um but
i am like so close to actually starting
on my rust implementation of what i'm
doing and that's
something i'm going to look at right
away so i have a busy day tomorrow but
wednesday i have time again
so i'll probably poke around and see
what i can do my requirements
may not be um you know the way i've seen
the most recently updated may not be
ideal for what i want um
so i don't know if uh and just maybe
different set of requirements but i'm
definitely gonna give a look so i can
report back
on monday or on the ipld
channel either way awesome yeah
oh man this is a it's a rough two weeks
to get into the rust act
because poker's out this whole two weeks
well i you know i yeah i
see that but i'm optimistic i'm able to
figure it out
uh we'll see how it goes i think i like
spewed russ pretty darn well
um and i may actually he asked for kind
of a code review on the multi
format stuff so i may just start by
digging into code and looking at to get
a feel for
what i what aspects of rust they're
using and
you know how things are laid out so
we'll see
the javascript implementation is not
very big like it's a pretty
easy data structure to implement um i
will say though that like
there isn't a schema validation library
in rust yet so that might be
just something that you just need to be
careful and like get
get a lot of good review to make sure
that you're not breaking the schema
anywhere because i don't think that
there's anything that's going to check
that for you right now
or you can just text you could just um
use the
actually yeah if you just like dump a
bunch of the blocks into a car file then
you could load them up and
and do the testing in javascript and it
would be fine
yeah car files actually work across like
across stacks now it's
it's kind of awesome yeah um
so i uh one one more thing from my side
uh kind of on the heels of what i just
said chris
i'm sorry um i raised this
issue about um what are
ins in schemas and we're kind of saying
like well
it's just a number uh how does this
actually
gel together with the flexible byte
layout
which has a size where it's super
important how wide this size is
so sorry i said that again i missed the
first part of that somehow so
so in schemas we kind of say when we say
int we
don't really say what kind of interface
but in flexible byte layout we really
have to say what kind of ins
the size is so how do we reconcile that
well i mean if it were ever a negative
number it would just flat out not work
so yeah yeah i mean a failure yeah
i mean i made the whittle it starts
towards six four bits that part
[Music]
okay yeah yeah so oh man numbers eric's
favorite topic
um yeah
like basically we can't discuss this
last time
and we said like yeah it's kind of
implementation specific uh and my
question is now if it is implementation
specific
how do we treat the flexible byte layout
then so
if you look at the data model spec data
model specs
says that your date in order to be
compliant you have to support
64-bit integers um like you
you're sorry you have to support big
integers um like
it says that in the spec without losing
precision
so that means that for instance like
json doesn't actually have a problem
with large integers
um javascript has a problem with large
integers so we can't use like the
regular
javascript parser we have to use one
that will recognize it and use big
integers
for that reason or i think just use a
newer
i think that the latest vms have
json implementations that will detect it
and use a big number
so that works now but um anyway
yeah so it's sort of the job of the
codec implementation
to make sure that when it gets a large
number that it puts it into the proper
large number format for that language
okay so basically as far as a schema is
concerned our
integers are essentially uh
arbitrary precision yeah
okay that that's the part that was
missing because we actually don't say
this anywhere
in the data models yeah i think
i think the merged stocks are
insufficient on this um we
i think our agreement is basically that
yes we're going to treat things as
roughly infinite precision
we've struggled with how exactly to
phrase that maybe we should just say it
um some of the clarifications that i use
to
make this not keep me up at night is
uh we don't do math in ipld and
thank god because that means that we
get to care about this a hell of a lot
less and
we can safely punctitude that's
implementation specific
much more reliably because all of the
things that we're pumping to be
implementation specific
are it works or it should error
real hard there are no
undefined transitions where like math
occurs and
it does something weird or something
else
it's do something for halt
and so i assume that that would continue
to just apply in the internal of the
flexible byte layout spec
if you start processing some of this
stuff with a library that doesn't
support big enough integers for the data
that you're processing
then it should hold
right so basically we we almost need to
define
uh hold on known out of bounds
values kind of thing requirement for
libraries
i think we should just as well write
that up yeah because i can't imagine
what else
we would do and it's better to say it
rather than imply it
no that's that's actually great that's
that's what i would do
as well i just wasn't sure that it's
sufficient
yeah like well
i can't think of a case in which we do
that so
because we we so we have two we
basically have two types of codecs right
we have ipld native codecs and then we
have codex for things that already exist
that we're just
parsing um and turning into data model
for the things we're parsing and turning
into data model there's like a known
like the spec that we read is
effectively like we're taking this value
and then we're representing it in our
data model
and our data model says arbitrary
position um
and so each of those languages would
have to support whatever precision in
each of those specs and if it can't
support it then it would have to
cause an exception for our specs
we do say you have to support
arbitrarily large editors
for our codex specs we say you
you need to support arbitrarily large
like numbers
basically um and without losing
precision
i mean we should say that if we if we
don't well okay
i don't know if i agree with that
because literally none of our codex will
not add single one of them
well what wouldn't be updated support
numbers
yeah no no i mean jason the doug jason
could have would have a problem with
that if we didn't go out of our way to
solve it
i mean the go one certainly doesn't
never has in any version
support large numbers
no no wait wait wait wait wait like go
just like javascript
does not support them out of the box you
have to do something like you have to
use the biggest yeah and
there's no universally community agreed
upon definition of big end like there is
not a big internet standard that i know
of
so there definitely is oh okay
well that i know of is an important
qualifier there
i might be wrong now because i need to
see what what they wrote
like what the base 58
stuff is citizen against uh i'll get
back to you
maybe there's something in the x series
packages i don't actually know
um but i can definitely tell you that
none of our codecs in any of our things
support that
right now yeah i mean like
because what ends up happening is that
this turns into a determinism problem
um on read write right because you read
data you don't have a you parse it into
something that doesn't have sufficient
capacity for the integer precision
and then you re-serialize it and you're
you're not actually
serializing the right data because
you've now mutated the integer where you
didn't want to
except if you use the definition of when
you overflow
you halt then you do not have that
problem which is why that's weird
yeah i mean yeah if you if you want to
throw that spot like if your language
just
doesn't support it your language doesn't
support it like um
i think that though if you're going to
write the code to halt you might as well
just write the code to put
into a big integer
yeah i just pasted it in the chat gold
definitely has a core
mass big end i don't know which version
but from 11 onwards for sure
right that's cool so yeah um
okay so if we assume that
every language that we are that that we
want to target has
some type of vegan library then
the rest becomes a non-problem or there
are still
edge cases so it's it's on the list of
things that we need to worry about
every time that we deal with a codec so
every time that we're like taking an
existing format and figuring out how to
represent it
like whenever we're doing that work we
we need to like
somewhere we need to start writing down
like all the things that you need to go
and worry about like you need to worry
about map sorting and you need to worry
about like this
this is like one of the things you need
to worry about
um yeah i basically like i understand
it's a it's it's a huge
issue i specifically want to scope it to
fbl like
inflexible pipeline
feels fine like fbl shouldn't have to
say anything particular about it like
like it is on top of a stack that says
like we are handling this for you or
throwing
and um and and yeah all those
all those concerns just like you know
belong there
um i think the only thing that we may
need to think about
is like if if we want to introduce a
feature into schemas
that allowed you to in your schema
say add some specificity to your
numbers like for instance this has to be
a negative number or
something like that then um then
or you know this can't be a negative
number if we wanted to add something
like that would that would still be a
schema feature though and
a codec feature an fbl feature it would
be like a schema feature first and then
maybe we use it in that fbl
um but you know that's a different
conversation about like schema features
yeah no this this makes sense cool yeah
this helps us all all right that's all i
have
cool all right
cool well then um bye everybody
and see you next week awesome
stop recording